Custos: the watcher who will guard the watchers. 

The final product will allow for the secure integration and continuous monitoring of a modular smart agriculture system. The problem is that smart tech is deployed with convenience in mind, not security. We look to change this by developing a system to integrate smart devices and enforce security policy. Agriculture is one of the oldest forms of human technology, and successful agriculture requires certain conditions to produce viable foods. Variable moisture conditions, unstable temperatures, and lack of wired electricity has made it hard to deploy technology to monitor environmental conditions. However, in the last decade, internet connected devices have become cheaper and more resilient. The is evident by the boom in smart home technology such as the video doorbell, the smart fridge, the heating and lighting we can control just with our voice. In 2025 we can easily conceive that in the next five years, most farms will have some kind of monitoring or automation system deployed in situ. 

We might also conceive of a threat to this system. In 2024, the Labour Party of the UK wrote that "food security is national security."(https://www.farmersguide.co.uk/business/labour-manifesto-food-security-is-national-security/) When viewed in the context of the Russia- Ukraine war, this statement clearly indicates why an effort must be made to protect the agriculture industry from cyberattack. Existing systems are  hugely expensive, complex proprietary technology developed by large corporations, universities or through government grants. This poses a barrier to the small projects, the home farmers, the kitchen gardeners who will be connected their food production to the internet, but may not be doing so securely. Most contemporary agriculture 
does not have an easily accessible and safe platform for introducing internet connected devices to monitor and control the conditions of the land. 

This project proposes a secure and modular platform for microcontroller driven devices to be added as modules into a system, with each device monitored and its behaviour logged and visualised for the user. It will be possible to remove a device from the network remotely at any time, either manually or automatically using policy based triggers. The focus of other products is to monitor telemetry from sensors that read the conditions of the land itself, this project monitors the sensors themselves, taking our title "Custos" from the Latin for "guardian" or "watcher". The concept of this project is to create the concept for a system that works at any size, and the minimum viable product is in my kitchen garden.

This project addresses this in two ways - firstly by building the a secure system, and secondly by monitoring the connected devices for anomalies that might indicate compromise. 
